# AptaSeq Analysis

This pipeline treats each unique 40-mer down to the base as a separate aptamer. An alternative approach I tried was to treat sequences with 90%+ identity, or <= 4 mismatches, as the same aptamer in order to increase the tallied number of hits for that group and better deconvolute which varieties perform the best across the entire pool. Unfortunately, with hundreds of thousands of unique aptamers present across the reads, calculating the Hamming distance between every single possible combination in order to create those groupings leads to a ridiculously high programming complexity that I estimate could take weeks to process. It could be done, and theoritically in a situation where we aim to identify ideal aptamers for potential therapeutics, it might be ideal. If you want to look at how I apprached the analysis, it is left in the script though bypassed as "comments".

Because here we are are more interested in the performance of specific aptamers (namely the controls) in each condition, similar sequences can be treated separately. Interestingly, looking at the results, the top hits do not actually appear to have much similarity. However, that does not factor in any aptamers that might share high sequence identity and thus increase their score, which could also be the product of improper basecalling. (I've neglected that possibility in general because it can't really be predicted)

Judging from the results, the best combination is ___ k cells with __ copies of aptamer per cell, the worst being ___ k cells with __ copies/cell.
